---
hide:
- toc
---

# Dorm Housing, Communal TVs, Underground Tunnels Envisioned For ‘All-Inclusive’ $3 Billion, 300-Acre City For The Homeless

LOS ANGELES (CBSLA)* – A California crowdfunding effort is hoping to solve the U.S. homeless crisis by building a 300-acre city open ==exclusively== to those without a home.

> **exclusive**	*adj. 专用的，专有的，独有的*

Daune Nason, founder of the *Folsom-based Citizens Again*, released details Thursday of his plans for an ==estimated== $3 billion private city equipped with amenities and services for a 150,000 “high-needs” population.

> **estimate**	*n. 估价，估计；	v. 估计，估算*

California’s homeless population in 2018 was almost 130,000, nearly a quarter of the national total, according to the most recent ==federal== data. 

> **federal**	*adj. 联邦制的；	n. 联邦主义者，同盟盟友*

“Qualified citizens” – those who meet as-yet ==undisclosed== criteria – will be allowed to live in the city and are free to leave whenever they wish, says Nason, who adds, “Some might want to stay forever.”

> **disclosed**	*v. 揭露，透露，泄露*

According to a press release, the all-inclusive city will offer high-density housing in dormitories consisting of sleeping quarters and ==communal== bathrooms with private showers.

> **communal**	*adj. 共享的，共有的，共用的*

Residents would be provided RFID-enabled wristbands to gain access to their dorm rooms as well as perform tasks such as job check-in, purchasing items with credits, medicine ==consumption==, and more.

> **consumption**	*n. 消耗，消耗量，消费* 

Each of the four neighborhoods will have their own cafeteria(自助餐厅) and kitchen and multiple scheduled eating times to accommodate a 150,000-person population, according to Nason.

> **accommodate**	*v. 为(某人)提供住宿(或膳宿、座位等)，容纳，为…提供空间，考虑到，顾及*

The neighborhoods will also be fitted with ==tiered== seating for residents to watch TV in a community setting within their neighborhood.

> **tier**	*n. 级，阶， 层， 阶层，等级；v. 层层排列，使层叠成递升排列，层叠*

Part of the effort will involve building underground tunnels by which deliveries can be made and city workers can ==commute== to job sites in order to “minimize disruption of citizen life”, according to Nason.

> **commute**	*v. 通勤，减刑，代偿；n.  上下班路程*

And when those living in the city are prepared to leave, they’ll be provided with job and life skills training along with ==counseling== and ==therapy==, Nason said.

> **counseling**	*n. 评议，商议，辅导，建议*

> **therapy**	*n. 治疗，疗法*

“It will be a city they’ll want to live in, a community they’ll want to be part of, and for those that desire, an opportunity to gain life skills to ==integrate== back into society,” according to the Citizens Again website.

> **integrate**	*v. (使) 合并，成为一体，(使) 加入，融入群体*

*A GoFundMe effort* with a goal of \$50,000 for the proposed city had raised just \$60 as of Thursday.

