---
hide:
- toc
---

# [Floating Point Math](https://0.30000000000000004.com/)

Your language isn’t broken, it’s doing floating point math. Computers can only natively store integers, so they need some way of representing decimal numbers. This representation is not perfectly accurate. This is why, more often than not, `0.1 + 0.2 != 0.3`.

> **More often than not  习语**，意思是“常常”、“经常”，在句中用作状语，表示频率。如：
>
> + More often than not the train is late.  这趟火车常常晚点。
> + Food is scarce and more often than not they go hungry. 食物很少，他们经常挨饿。
> + On friday mornings , he comes late more often than not. 多数情况下，他星期五来得晚。

## Why does this happen?

It’s actually rather interesting. When you have a base-10 system (like ours), it can only express **fractions** that use a prime **factor** of the base. 

> **fraction**  n. 分数；部分；小部分；稍微：
>
> + a number that results from dividing one whole number by another:
>
>   *1/4 and 0.25 are different ways of representing the same fraction.*
>
> + a small part of something, or a small amount:
>
>   *The company's computers only represent a fraction of the market.*
>
> **factor**  n. 因素；要素；[物] 因数：
>
> + a fact or situation that influences the result of something:
>
>   *Heavy snow was a contributing factor in the accident.*
>
> + in mathematics, any whole number that is produced when you divide a larger number by another whole number:
>
>   *Two, three, four and six are all factors of twelve.*

The prime factors of 10 are 2 and 5. So 1/2, 1/4, 1/5, 1/8, and 1/10 can all be expressed cleanly because the **denominators** all use prime factors of 10. In contrast, 1/3, 1/6, 1/7 and 1/9 are all repeating decimals because their denominators use a prime factor of 3 or 7.

> **denominator**  n. [数] 分母；命名者；共同特征或共同性质；平均水平或标准
>
> + the number below the line in a fraction:
>
>   *In the fraction ¾, 4 is the denominator.*
>
> repeating decimals   n. [数] 循环小数
>
> + another name for *recurring decimal* ：a rational number that contains a pattern of digits repeated indefinitely after the decimal point ( Ex.: 0.47382382382...)

In binary (or base-2), the only prime factor is 2, so you can only cleanly express fractions whose denominator has only 2 as a prime factor. In binary, 1/2, 1/4, 1/8 would all be expressed cleanly as decimals, while 1/5 or 1/10 would be repeating decimals. So 0.1 and 0.2 (1/10 and 1/5), while clean decimals in a base-10 system, are repeating decimals in the base-2 system the computer uses. When you perform math on these repeating decimals, you end up with leftovers which carry over when you convert the computer’s base-2 (binary) number into a more human-readable base-10 representation.

> **perform**  vt. 执行；完成；演奏
>
> + to do an action or piece of work:
>
>   *The operation will be performed next week.*
>
> + to do something in a satisfactory or expected way：
>
>   *Several grafts[n. 嫁接；移植] may be performed at one operation.*
>
> + to entertain people by dancing, singing, acting, or playing music:
>
>   *This play was first performed in 411 BC.* 
>
> leftover  n. 残留物；吃剩的饭菜；剩余物
>
> + A leftover part of something is the part that has not been used or eaten when the other parts have been：
>
>   *Some leftover chicken from last night's meal.*
>
> **carry over** phrasal verb.  继续存在，延续
>
> + if something is carried over into a new situation, it continues to exist in the new situation：
>
>   *The pain and violence of his childhood were carried over into his marriage.*

Read more:

- [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Floating_point)
- [IEEE 754](https://standards.ieee.org/standard/754-2008.html)
- [Stack Overflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/588004/is-javascripts-math-broken/588014)
- [What Every Computer Scientist Should Know About Floating-Point Arithmetic](http://docs.oracle.com/cd/E19957-01/806-3568/ncg_goldberg.html)